Designing DataBase is at most important.

1)Data Modelling: It is the process of creating a model for the data that we want to store in a database.

1.Understand the requirements
2.Build a conceptual Model.  visual representation of DB
3.Build a Logical Model :Abstract DataBase .Independent of DB technology.
4.Building a Physical Model:Implementation of Logical Model  for a particular DB Technology.PK,views,Data types etc ... 

Conceptual Model:
	Represents the entities and their relationships
1)ER diagrams   	
2)UML diagrams        
are both ways for visually expressing concepts.

Tools are Microsoft visio,draw.io,Lucid charts

conceptual Model:It does not give actual structure for storing the data.
It only represents business entities and relationship.We used to understand the problem domain and communicate with domain experts.

logical Model:It has more detail compared to conceptual model.We almost know the structure and tables to store data. 

physical model :It is the implementation of a logical model for the specific database technology.


Primary Key :
It is a column which uniquely identifies the record in a table.

whenever we add a relationship between two tables .One end of the relationship called parent table or primary key Table  and another end is called child table or Foreign Key Table. 

In our example parent able is students table and child table called enrollments table.

Foreign Key :
A Foreign key is a column or a set of columns in a database table refers to the primary key of another table.It establishes the relation between the tables. 
 
In our example 2 foriegn keys are there for enrollments.one is student_id for enrollments and students.
another one is course_id  for enrollment and courses.

Now we have to set constraints for foreign key
Update : SETNULL,CASCADE,NOACTION,RESTRICT
Delete :  SETNULL,CASCADE,NOACTION,RESTRICT
Based on Business requirement we have to kept the constraint that needed.To maintain consistency and to prevent the loss of  data we have to set constraints.

Normalization :
Before we go ahead and to generate  the DataBases tables.We need to 
 make sure that our design is optimal and does not allow redundancy.
Because it will complicate the insert ,delete ,update operations. Otherwise we have inconsistent data  and leads to generate invalid reports.
	 Normalization is the process of reviewing design  and ensures that it is following predefined rules and prevent data Duplication.
There are basically 7 rules called 7 Normal forms.For almost 99% of Applications we need to apply 3 Normal Forms.


